ENH: stats: Integrate library UNU.RAN in `scipy.stats` [GSoC 2021] (#14215)
scipy/scipy: doc/source/tutorial/stats/sampling_dau.rst

          ``def pmf(x: float, ...) -> float``, it first vectorizes the
          PMF using ``np.vectorize`` and then evaluates it over all the
          points in the domain. But if the PMF is already vectorized,
          it is much faster to just evaluate it at each point in the domain
          and pass the obtained PV instead along with the domain.
          For example, ``pmf`` methods of SciPy's discrete distributions
          are vectorized and a PV can be obtained by doing:

          >>> from scipy.stats import binom, DiscreteAliasUrn
          >>> dist = binom(10, 0.2)  # distribution object
          >>> domain = dist.support()  # the domain of your distribution
          >>> x = np.arange(domain[0], domain[1] + 1)
          >>> pv = dist.pmf(x)
          >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(pv, domain=domain)

          Domain is required here to relocate the distribution.

The performance can be slightly influenced by setting the size of the used
table which can be changed by passing a ``urn_factor`` parameter.

    >>> # use a table twice the length of PV.
    >>> urn_factor = 2
    >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(pv, urn_factor=urn_factor, seed=urng)
    >>> rng.rvs()
    2

> .. note:: It is recommended to keep this parameter under 2.

Reviewer: I would also add the references here for completeness, same for TDR

Author: Done.

* Required: probability vector (PV) or the PMF along with a finite domain
* Speed:

    * Set-up: slow (linear with the vector-length)
    * Sampling: very fast 

DAU samples from distributions with arbitrary but finite probability vectors
(PV) of length N. The algorithm is based on an ingenious method by A.J.
Walker and requires a table of size (at least) N. It needs one random number
and only one comparison for each generated random variate. The setup time for
constructing the tables is O(N).

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> from scipy.stats import DiscreteAliasUrn
    >>> 
    >>> pv = [0.18, 0.02, 0.8]
    >>> urng = np.random.default_rng(0x8383b295ecbf0874ac910b13adcc85a0)
    >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(pv, seed=urng)
    >>> rng.rvs()
    2

By default, the probability vector is indexed starting at 0. However, this
can be changed by passing a ``domain`` parameter. When ``domain`` is given
in combination with the PV, it has the effect of relocating the
distribution from ``(0, N)`` to ``(domain[0]``, ``domain[0] + N)``.
``domain[1]`` is ignored in this case.

   >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(pv, domain=(10, 13), seed=urng)
   >>> rng.rvs()
   12

> The method also works when no probability vector but a PMF is given. However
> then additionally a bounded (finite) domain must also be given.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method also works when no probability vector but a PMF is given. 
In that case, a bounded (finite) domain must also be given.
```

    >>> class Distribution:
    ...     def pmf(self, x, c):
    ...         return x**c
    ... 
    >>> dist = Distribution()
    >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(dist=dist, domain=(1, 10), params=(2, ),
    ...                        seed=urng)
    >>> rng.rvs()
    9

.. note:: As :class:`~DiscreteAliasUrn` expects PMF with signature
          ``def pmf(x: float, ...) -> float``, it first vectorizes the
          PMF using ``np.vectorize`` and then evaluates it over all the
          points in the domain. But if the PMF is already vectorized,
          it is much faster to just evaluate it at each point in the domain
          and pass the obtained PV instead along with the domain.
          For example, ``pmf`` methods of SciPy's discrete distributions
          are vectorized and a PV can be obtained by doing:

          >>> from scipy.stats import binom, DiscreteAliasUrn
          >>> dist = binom(10, 0.2)  # distribution object

>           >>> domain = dist.support()  # the domain of your distribution

Reviewer 2: Here we see that in the distributions we are using `support`, why do we use `domain` here?

Author: > Here we see that in the distributions we are using `support`, why do we use `domain` here?

You are right, `support` would be a better name if we were to be more consistent with SciPy. `domain` comes from the naming convention used by UNU.RAN. I would delay changing this until we are ready to merge because it would require a lot of cosmetic changes to docs, tests, and even benchmarks interfering a lot with the review process.

Reviewer 2: Of course 👍

Author: After giving it a second thought, I remember why I named it `domain` instead of `support`: The `domain` parameter allows the user to truncate the distribution. In that case, `support` might be misleading: "should the full support be passed or any arbitrary *domain* inside the support would work?" This makes me want to use `domain` instead. Does this make sense, @tupui?

Reviewer 2: I see, let's get another opinion on this. On my side I would be fine with `support` as in the end it is the new support of the distribution.

Reviewer: > After giving it a second thought, I remember why I named it domain instead of support: The domain parameter allows the user to truncate the distribution. In that case, support might be misleading: "should the full support be passed or any arbitrary domain inside the support would work?" This makes me want to use domain instead. Does this make sense,

I had the same thought and would be in favor of keeping `domain`

          >>> x = np.arange(domain[0], domain[1] + 1)
          >>> pv = dist.pmf(x)
          >>> rng = DiscreteAliasUrn(pv, domain=domain)

          Domain is required here to relocate the distribution.

> The performance can be slightly influenced by setting the size of the used

Reviewer 2: I think this section is only useful if you detail a bit more what is this parameter doing.

Author: I think it would be better to do that in a follow-up. I don't want to take up larger enhancements in this PR as it's already huge and large changes might make it even harder to review!

Reviewer 2: Ok for me if we don't forget 😉
